- Chapter 6: Fear
  - Fear is the predominant emotion in the world. It is our most basic survival mechanism and thus enjoys a privileged status amongst our mind's programs.
  - A good starting point is letting go the fear of fear itself. When we stop beign afraid of fear, we notice that it is just a feeling.
  - Fear is self-reinforcing. One of the laws of consciousness is **what one holds in mind tends to manifest**. Any thought which we consistently hold i mind and consistently give energy to will tend to come into our life according to the very form in which our mind has held it. Thus fear engenders fearful thoughts. The more we hold these thoughts in mind, the more likely the feared event will happen in our life, which again reinforces our fear.
    - Just like love attracts love, the more fear we hold, the more fearful situations we attract to our life.
    - You thinking about something gives energy into making it a reality. Therefore it is especially important to stop feeding fear and letting them go.
    - Fear tends to progressively extend into more and mroe avenues of life, leading to further and further restrictions of activity. Letting go of fearful inhibitions allows us to become more capable, freer, and happier, and with that, there is an inner peace of mind.
  - Fear is healed by love. Higher vibration, such as love, has a healing effect on a lower vibration, such as fear. This love is the mechanism of reassurance, and very often we can quiet another person's fears by our mere physical presence, and by the loving energy that we project to them and with which we surround them. It is not what we say, but the very fact of our presence that has the healing effect.
    - By letting go the energy caught up in sustaining our fears and defensive mechanisms, we thereby have more energy for love. Our capacity to love increases, and loving energy has the capacity to heal ourselves and others.
    - We might picture love to be like the sunlight and negative thoughts like the clouds. Whereas our higher greater Self is like the sun, all the negative thoughts, doubts, fears, anger and resentments that we hold dim the light of the sun and finally, the light comes through only weakly.
  - We have fear of ourselves as well, of what lies buried in our unconscious. We project our shadow onto the world and condemn it and see it as evil. And we think it is our problem to battle with evil in the world. In actuality, the problem is merely to acknowledge the rpesence of such thoughts and impulses in ourselves. By acknowledging them, they become quiet. Once they are quiet, they no longer unconsciously run us.
    - To do this it's useful to have a sense of humor. It is only our fear of these thoughts and impulses that give them any power.
    - The images conjured by our shadow, our dark impulses, are actually rather comical. There is nothing awful about it; it is just the way the unconscious handles images. It doesn't mean you're rotten or a criminal, you've just gotten acquainted with how the human animal mind operates in this dimension. The unconscious is crude and uncivilized. It's not time to get squeamish, nor to take the symbols seriously. They are just symbols that are primitive in nature.
    - It takes a lot of energy to keep these thoughts of the 'shadow' buried. This results in energy depletion. 
  - There is a mistaken belief that our fears are what is keeping us alive, because fear is deeply associated with our survival mechanisms. We think letting go of them will leave us vulnerable in some way. The reality is the opposite. Fear blinds us to the real dangers of life. That we are surrendering our freedom and destroying our psyche and physiology. Fear itself is the greatest danger that the human body faces. It is fear and guilt that bring about disease and failure in every area of our lives.
    - We could take the same protective actions our of love rather than out of fear. Can we not care for our bodies because we appreciate and value them, rather than out of fear of disease and dying? Can we not be of service to others in our life out of love, rather than out of fear of losing them? Can we not be polite and courteous to strangers because we care for our fellow human beings, rather than because we fear losing their good opinion of us? Can we not do a good job because we care about the quality of our performance and we care about our fellow workers and the recipients of our services, rather than just the fear of losing our jobs or pursuing our own ambition? Can we not accomplish more by cooperation, rather than by fearful competition?
  - One form of fear is guilt. It's a substitute for a sense of reality in a mind that is undeveloped, to prevent further error or the repetition of a mistake. 99% of guilt has nothing whatsoever to do with reality. The most pious, meek and harmless individuals are often riddled with guilt.
    - We feel guilty no matter what we are doing. A part of our mind says that we really ought to be doing something else. OR whatever we are actually doing at the moment, we ought to be doing it 'better'. In between the fear of living and the fear of dying is the guilt of the moment.
    - Guilt is the denial of our inner intrinsic innocence. Why do we buy into so much garbage? Is it not because of our very innocence? We were all born a blank slate, and society's programs and beliefs were forced upon us because we trusted them. We bought into 10000 lies and are willing to buy another 10000 out of the naivete of our inner innocence. It's because of our very innocence that we believe ourselves to be guilty. We have bought into allt h negativity of the world and allowed it to kill our aliveness, destroy our awareness of who we really are, and sell us the pathetic little smallness for which we have settled.
    - Is not ours the innocence of the newborn that cannot defend itself and, with no capacity for discernment, could only allow itself to be programmed, like a computer?
    - People make entire livings off of exploiting our innocence and invalidating our self-worth, enslaving us to their cause, manipulating us so they can control us, living off of our energy, money, and time.
    - All of the things the world calls 'evil' are right on the surface; they are right on the top, as the superficial, outer thin layer. Beneath these errors is mistakenness. We are not rotten - only ignorant.
- Chapter 7: Desire
  - This is the feeling of acquisitiveness. Never satisfied. Never enough. Must have. The underlying desire of this emotion is its drivenness. When we are at the effect of desire, we are no longer free. We are controlled by it, run by it, enslaved and led about by the nose by it. The essential point of reedom is whether we have chosen consciously to fulfill a certain want, or whether we are just being blindly run by unconscious programs and belief systems.
  - We mistakenly believe that the only way to get what we want is by desiring it intensely. Paradoxically, this prevents us from attaining it since it comes from a belief that we lack it. We are putting psychic distance between ourselves and what we want. It becomes an obstacle that consumes energy. 
    - Remember that which we hold in our minds comes true. Our persistent desire blocks receiving it and results in fear of not getting it. It is a denial that what we want is ours for the asking.
    - The way something comes into our life is because we have chosen it. It was the result of our intention, or we made a decision for it. In a freer state, that which is chosen manifests in our life effortlessly. We surrender the emotion of desire, and instead meerely choose the goal, picture it lovingly, and allow it to happen because we see that it is already ours. Identify goals and then let go of wanting them. Being totally surrendered means it's okay if it happens (we get what we want), and it's okay if it doesn't (we don't).
    - Although the world may be stingy and hostile to other people, there is no reason why we should buy into this paradigm. When we buy into it, we make it that way in our own life. What we hold in mind tends to manifest almost magically.
  - One obstacle in the way of this effortless way of achieving goals is the belief that we must struggle and toil to get what we want. But there is no reason why this should be. If it weren't for the negative programming that made us believe otherwise, why should we go through any cost of pain and suffering to achieve anything in our life? Isn't that a rather sadistic view of the universe? Align your energy to allow luck to happen for you!
  - The unconscious will only allow us to have what we think we deserve. The more we hang on to our negativity and the small self-image that results, the less we think we deserve, and we unconsciously deny ourselves the abundance which flows so easily to others. Relinquish your smallness, revalidate your own inner innocence. Let go resisting your generosity, openness, trust, lovingness, and faith.
  - Havingness to doingness to beingness. At lower levels of consciousness, it is what we have that we value and desire and use to evaluate our self-image. Once we have proven to ourselves that we can have, then what we do in the owrld is the basis of our value. Doingness becomes less focused on self-service and more on loving service to others. That eventually automatically results fulfillment of our own needs (note service is not sacrifice). Eventually, we become convinced that our own needs are automatically fulfilled by the universe, and our actions become almost automatically loving. At this point, it is what we are that counts, within ourselves and to others. It's the quality of our presence.
  - Glamour is the aura, attractice magnetic effect, belief in some magical quality attached to an object of desire. It should be distinguished from the object itself. It is the sentimentality attached that leads us to make the object bigger than life. It makes us believe that obtaining it will grant us some higher state of consciousness and satisfaction. This glamour is the disparity that often leads to disillusionment once we attain the object.  
    - We also attach glamour to certain events in our lives, which also causes disappointment. When we let go of desire, we must dissect away that which is exaggeration, fantasy, and romanticization. Once we have relinquished the glamour, it will be relatively easy to surrender the desire itself.
  - Just choose to be that person and let go of the block of desiring to be that way.
    - Simply picture the kind of person we want to be and surrender allt he negative feelings and blocks that prevent us from being that. What happens then is that all we need to have and to do will automatically fall into place. This is because, in constrast to having and doing, the level of being has the most power and energy. When it is given priority, it automatically integrates and organizes one's activites.
    - Be able to recognize your own inner power. We tend to attribute luck or success to things external to us. But almost everything that happens to us is simply because we allow it to happen! We are all powerful beings who have become unconscious of our own power; we have denied and projected it onto others out of guilt and our own sense of smallness. The majority of what happens in our lifetime is the result of some decision we have made somewhere in the past, either consciously or unconsciously. Therefore the solution is to make those decisions consciously!
  - Cancel negative programs starting by relinquishing the gratification we get out of the negative payoffs. Guilt is self-indulgence. There is no winning the guilt game. That's why selfishness is impractical. It consumes too much energy. It delays the accomplishment of goals from coming from a place of lack. It creates self-perpetuating guilt. And after we achieve success, we feel guilty because we have it.
  - Summary: instead of the motivation of selfishness and desire, we can much more effortlessly bring into our life that which we want by envisioning what we wish to have happen. We do this by declaration of our intention, by acceptance, by decision, and by the act of consciously choosing.
- Chapter 8: Anger
  - Revenge, outrage, indignation, fury, jealousy, vindictiveness, spite, hatred, contempt, wrath, argumentativeness, hostility, sarcasm, impatience, frustration, negativity, aggression, violence, revulsion, meanness, rebellion, explosive behavior, agitation, abusiveness, abrasiveness, smoldering, sullenness, pouting, and stubbornness.
  - We typically feel so much guilt about anger that we find it necessary to make the object of our anger 'wrong' so that we can say our anger is 'justified'. Few are the person who can take responsiblity for their own anger and just say, 'I am angry because I am full of angriness.'
  - We will repress our anger, aggression and inner hostility because it is looked down upon to express such emotions. But these repressed emotions still contain the destructive negative energy, and if left to fester they still hurt us mentally and physiologically. Better to view this energy positively and direct it towards firing up our ambitions and actions in useful ways.
  - The opposite of anger is acceptance. Accept the situation, including any negative feelings you might have about it.
    - It's our personal pride that feeds and propagates anger. 
    - We set ourselves up for anger when we see ourselves as sacrificing in our relationships, and the other person is usually unaware of this inner 'sacrifice' and therefore is unlikely to meet our expectations for acknowledging or appreciating it.
    - That which we want, desire, and insist upon from another person is felt by them as pressure. They will therefore unconsciously resist. They will block that desire because pressure is always felt by us as a denial of our choice. It is emotional blackmail, which we resent. e.g. we are reluctant to give compliments to someone who is fishing for them.
    - Self-sacrifice has the energy of emotional blackmail. It comes from a place of pride (of the self-sacrifice), and is therefore actually selfish and secretly vain. Relinquish the pride, surrender our desire for the pleasure of self-pity, and instead view our efforts on behalf of others as gifts. We can experience the joy of being generous with others as its own reward.
    - One thing you should do is always acknowledge when another person is putting in effort for you or makes a gesture towards you.
  - Very often the behavior of others towards you (even if it's negative) is an attempt to signal to you to become more aware. Ask 'what is that person asking me to become more aware of?' In this way you can turn any behavior towards you as a gift. Derive some value from it. Everyone in our lives is a mirror. They are reflecting back to us what we have failed to acknowledge within ourselves, forcing us to look at what needs to be addressed. Be grateful for the continual opportunities of growth with which we are pressented in the course of everyday experience.
  - One way we force ourselves out of unsatisfactory situations if by making ourselves or the situation 'wrong' to justify leaving it. We feel some obligation to it otherwise. To our past selves or to some sense of continuity and consistency. How much easier it would all be if we just simply choose to move on to a better situation. Resorting to the mechanism of wrongness is simply a denial of our own freedom to choose.
  - When we stop pressuring others with our expectations, we create an opening for them spontaneously to respond positively to us. Shift what we have done for others from the level of sacrifice to the level of a loving gift. Acknowledge ourselves for this move and drop our expectations, which will dissolve the resistances in others.
    - We get what we want when we stop insisting on it!
    - I will no longer accept invalidation from myslef or others. Couple this with acknowledging all that is positive within ourselves and others.
  - Anger has deleterious effects on your health. It raises your blood pressure, weakens the heart, blocks the flow of energy within the body and de-synchronizes the brain hemispheres.
  - We use morals to justify our anger. We want to think we are right in a situation and are therefore right to feel angry. This feeling comes from a place of vanity and pride, and the cost is chronic anger and the sickness and premature death it causes. Is that worth the small satisfaction of being right?
  - We are all psychically connected. The internal position we hold about another person is forcing them to adopt a complementary defensive position. Who needs enemies?
  - Willingness is the key. And it becomes stronger as anger dissipates. Willingness is our overall decision to find a better way, to stop relying on anger, and to move up to courage and acceptance. 
  - Anger actually binds the object of anger to our mind and therefore our lives. We are stuck in the negative pattern until we let go of the energy of anger and its little payoffs of righteous indignation, feeling wronged and the desire for revenge.
- Chapter 9: Pride
  - Pride is devoid of love. Consequently, it is essentially destructive.
  - Intellectual pride leads to ignorance, and spiritual pride is the main block to spiritual development and maturation in everyone.
    - The prideful feeling that you have all the answers blocks your growth and development. The egotistical part of the mind is willing to sacrifice the whole remainder of a person for its own sake rather than admit to being wrong. 
    - This is especially prevalent in men. The pride prevents us from letting go of those programs that society considers masculine, blocking a lot of emotional and psychological inner development.
  - The prideful person is constantly on the defensive because of the vulnerability of inflation and denial. Conversely, the humble person cannot be humiliated for they are immune to vulnerability, having let go of pride. In its place, they have an inner security and self-esteem, which does not arise until pride is relinquished. 
    - That which inflates the ego increases our vulnerability and overall level of fear; thus, it cannot lead to inner strength. 
    - Our energy is constantly dissipated by defending our lifestyle, vocation, neighborhood, clothes, car, ancestry, country, political and religious belief systems. We feel obligated to defend these possessions out of pride. This tireless preoccupation with appearance and what other people will think is linked directly to pride. Thus, causing a constant vulnerability to the opinion of others.
    - When we no longer feel called upon to defend our image, criticisms and attacks from others diminish and finally stop. When we let go of our need for validation or to prove ourselves right, then the challenges against us fall away.
    - Defensiveness invites attack.
    - Self-esteem is an inner awareness of one's true value and worth. It is characterized by a lack of defensiveness. You don't need to prove what is already self-evident to you. That which we truly know never needs defense. If we love all the things noted above (family, country, accomplishments), there is no question of their worth in our mind. True recognition and knowledge replace opinion and there is no room for argument.
  - When we truly love something and thereby become one with it, it is because we see its intrinsic perfection. IN fact, its 'faults' are part and parcel of its perfection, for all that we see in the universe is in the process of becoming. Its perfection evolution is part of that perfection. The half-unfolded flower is not an imperfect flower that needs defnse. Its blossoming is proceeding with precise perfection accoriding to the laws of the universe. Each and every individual on the planet is unfolding, growing, learning and reflecting that same perfection.
  - Feeling guilty about pride as a spiritual sin only locks it in. Ask what is the purpose of pride? What is its payoff? Why do I seek it? For what does it compensate? What do I have to realize about my true nature to let pride go without a feeling of loss? The answer: the smaller we feel within, the more we h ave to compensate for an inner sense of inadequacy, unimportance, and valuelessness by the substitution of the emotion of pride.
  - Humility is the state of peacefulness. It is not false modesty (humble bragging), diminishing oneself with the longing that others will recongize one for the accomplishments that one is so proud of but is too proud to brag about openly.
    - Critical verbalization by another person is merely a statement of the other person's inner problems.
  - The substitute to pride is joy. Joy for successful achievement rather than pride. What is wrong with achieving goals for the pleasure, enjoyment, love of accomplishment and the inner joy that it brings us?
    - We can reconginze our proneness to pain by looking at the kind of reactions we are hoping to elicit from others by our choices and behavior. We let ourselves be exploited, empty our pocketbooks, are led by the nose to devote time and energy to satisfy our pride and have others look at us with a mote of admiration. But that kind of cheap envy is not satisfactory. It is superficial glamour that no one truly respects.
    - The problem is not possessions, but that we have a prideful, possessive and self-congratulatory attitude about them.
  - Pride engenders guilt, which engenders fear, which causes a loss of peace of mind.
  - The opposite of prideful acquisitiveness is simplicity, which is a state of mind. It is not what we have that matters, but how we hold it, how we frame it in our consciousness, and its meaning to us.
    - Gratitude is one of the antidotes to pride. Everything you have is given to you by the universe. Being grateful for it puts us in a peaceful state of mind, invulnerable to pain.
    - We can have the most absurd and comical pride over the most trivial things. Once you see that, it is not too difficult to let go fo the pride involved.
  - Prefixing things with the word 'mine' usually attaches pride to that sense of ownership, making us feel called upon to defend everything we label as 'mine'. Instead use the word 'a'. One's thoughts are 'an opinion' not 'my opinion'. That's 'a shirt' not 'my shirt'.
  - Opinions are ideas that we either like or dislike. They give us pleasure so we like them. Just because we like them today doesn't mean we have to go to war over them. We like them so long as it serves us and we are getting enjoyment out of it. We discard it quite readily when it is no longer a soruce of pleasure. 
    - Feeling prideful of all your ideas and opinions simply spreads your vulnerability to attack across all these passing thoughts. You will feel the need to defend them all. They are not all that valuable and almost every mistake we ever made was based on an opinion. By not attaching pride to our opinions, then we are free to change them at any time. Don't box yourself in with pride.
    - What is wrong with just loving a concept because of its beauty, because of its inspirational quality or because of its serviceability? When we truly value something, we lift it aloft of the demeaning target range of argument.
    - If we tell somebody that we do someting because we get enjoyment out of it, there is really nothing much they can say about it, is there? If instead we infer that we do it because we are right in doing it, we are basically saying we are "better than" someone with a different opinion, and of course people will take exception to that.
    - Opinions change as we get deeper into any given subject or situation. This is the evolutionary aspect of life. Humility will protect us from all kinds of disillusionment, allow us to have an open mind and prepare us to change our opinions as the situation unfolds. Don't box yourself into the pain of defending lost causes. 
    - True power is flexibility and the ability to adapt and be open to all that is beneficial.
    - Pride prevents us from recognizing our own limitations and accepting the help we need to overcome them. Letting go of it allows that which would be most beneficial to us to enter our lives.